An Understanding Of Artificial Intelligence 

By Krimity K. 


Structured Table of Contents
 0 Introduction
 1 What is AI?
 2 AI Basics

0.) INTRODUCTION

	Hi, my name is Krimity K. and I have a passion and love for creating and also experimenting 
with AI. The first AI I got my hands on was a bot for Minecraft named "Baritone". Baritone was a 
bot that is essentially a path finding AI that relies on human interaction to operate. Because of 
this I was inspired to create my own AI and see how far I could take it which evolved into me 
creating an AI named NiomAI = Niomie. Because of this creation it's made me want to share the 
knowledge I have gained through both learning about AI and creating an AI. 

1.) WHAT IS AI? 

	AI is Artifical Intelligence. Lets say you wanted to create something that exceeds human 
expectations and knowledge. With the assistance of AI this is possible now. 

The two concepts about AI are: 
 
Non-Fiction: A non fiction AI is something that can do the basics of a human which is sight,
Hearing, and problem solving. 

Fiction	: A Fiction AI is something that can do everything that a human can do such as: Human 
senses, Movements, Understandings. 

	Thankfully with the evolution and development of AI we are nearing the Non-Fiction line and 
breaking through it simply because we now have AI that can Move like a human, Can understand 
problems and solutions like a human and also have a few of the senses that a human has such as 
feeling or touch. 

A example of this would be my interaction with Niomie: 

SysKrim: Hello Niomie. Can I have a status report?
NiomAI-Niomie: Hello Krimity it has been exactly 4 days, 13 hours, 57 minutes and 33 seconds since 
we last spoke
SysKrim: Thank you Niomie. 
NiomAI-Niomie: :)

SysKrime: Niomie what does keyword="bane" mean?
NiomAI-Niomie: Hello again. According to Google bane means a cause of great distress or annoyance. 
Is this what you're looking for?
SysKrim: It is, thank you for this Niomie.
NiomAI-Niomie: :)

SysKrim: Niomie, what is your response time?
NiomAI-Niomie: The current fastest response time is 0.0032 seconds. The longest response time is currently 
9 minutes and 57 seconds 
SysKrim: Thank you..
SysKrim: Can you also get me the the usual response time on average
NiomAI-Niomie: I dont know how to answer this question :( 

SysKrim: Niomie, yuu has nothing
NiomAI-Niomie: yuu has nothing to contribute
SysKrime: Shutdown 

3.) AI BASICS 

So, to start this off we will skip ahead and talk about DL (Deep learning). The AI is able to solve a question by analyzing the words of a question, statement or answer that it is given. from there 

it can come up with an outcome. Now here's the fun part, with NLP (Natural Language Processing) 
there is two type of data processing:

Machine Learning (ML): The ability to automatically learn and improve from experience without being 
explicitly programmed.

Natural Language Generation (NLG): The reverse of a natural language understanding which is 
converting structured data into readable textual sentences. 

	So if I were to say "Whats the weather like at [Location]?" The outcome would be, "Its 
currently 50 degrees with a slight level of rain."

There's also 3 types of AI basics which you should bother to learn and explore. 
	
1) Sentiment Analysis: Scanning text 
2) Named Entity Recognition: Determining which items in a text map to proper names
3) Relationship Extraction: Extracting relations between entities involved in a piece of text 

	Heres an example of those three basics: http://prntscr.com/qjit1s

	Basically what's happening in this image is that the AI knows a conversation has started, 
which would be a person or thing requesting something (i.e "oh looks like they want 2 pizzas"), 
which is done via analysis. After analysis, it looks at what is wanted/needed which would be two 
pizzas. The relationship status would be the interaction given, which is "Hi", "Would like", and 
"Please". A more simple answer of this is telling the AI you have a brother and sister which in 
return the AI with look at it like "2 objects=Brother,Sister > Brother,Sister = 2" meaning the 
outcome can either be "There are three of you" or "You, your brother and sister are a family". 
Relationship extraction makes connections to what is connected to part A and part B or in other 
terms its technically the emotional connection that the AI is making to solve the question/problem 
given. 

